
Please read "Aristotle's Poetics" --one of the finest books on dramatic arts

Basic game concepts:

Immortal

One who cannot die, who has been given special features and qualities 
beyond that of a standard player; there are different levels of immortals, 
including but not limited to the following:  Hero, Immortal, Diety, 
God/Goddess, Supreme.

There are roles which immortals play, these roles have specific 
functionality in the game and define their active participation in 
creation, being: Scripter (Writer), Builder (Editor), Director and 
Producer (Administrative).

Player

A human being, controlling an actor-like object, which interacts with and 
readily responds to the various other types of objects in some way, may 
die, speak, advance in levels, etc.

Script

A set of actions which, when performed, automate a sequence of events 
that have some conclusion, whether this be informative, or somehow change 
qualities and aspects of an actor, player, scene or exit.

Actor

A semi-autonomous or autonomous creature that responds to user commands, 
can die, produces a corpse and is active.  It may speak, move about, enter 
into combat, die or kill, gain experience, possesses player-like 
qualities.

Prop

A semi-autonomous but passive thing that responds to user commands.  
While it may have active qualities, it cannot die, but can be destroyed 
(purged).  On the average, props do not have very many active qualities, 
but do have an inherent function (such as being that of a weapon, armor, 
clothing, food, key, etc).

Scene

A location, sometimes active, often enclosed or not-enclosed, which 
performs the function of being a place for containing objects and props, 
and is considered a backdrop, passive, though it may be active, such as a 
vehicle, the inside of a gigantic mouth, a hilltop, or something more 
conceptual.

Exit

A link between two scenes which provides a transition, which may be 
blocked or locked, perform the function of a window, may be secret or 
concealed in some way, may be opened or closed by a script.

Scripts

Specialized live interpreted language for manipulating game objects and
performing event-based actions.  Used in combat, spellcasting, persistent
events, room-enterings, command line and many more for the purpose of
creating skill objects, tools, technology, vehicles, automated travel,
quests, artificial life.

Spells

Use of two co-existing spell systems; True Magick, a ritual-based
alchemistry and Gem Magick, a dynamic mana system based on gem mana
battery objects.

Skills

Dynamic skill system, complete with apprenticeships, online editor,
and tuition system.

Zone

Really a "set" -- but actually, a collection of scenes, props, scripts,
exits and actors.  A partitioning of the database for purposes of
security.


