 
    What lies before you in the following moments is an excerpt from
    several works-in-progress which help to lay out an epic tale that
    takes place in the fictional world called Tyselorrd, land of
    the Tyrants.  It is a work of fantastic fiction: that is, it is
    created completely in the mind of its author-- myself.
    
 
        The forgotten lore of the northland forests,
        Told of the great city-states of old,
        Now upon only the times of history rest,
        And those who would be so adventurous and bold;
        Could find these cities: Soudbrun, Cetvin, Tallez and Mordel,
        The ruinous spires of the forbidden cities,
        The ancient war-kings and their ancient citadel,
        Now shrouded more in mists than mysteries,
        Yet still one can find a tale to be told.
        
     I now begin the War Cant, a historical tale of the final battle
     between King Coranos Rygor of the Southern Isles of Jharl and
     the great dwarven empress Tiktui who rules all of Tyselorrd,
     the land of the Tyrants.  Tiktui had come to power by allying
     herself with the malignant city-state of Nostol and its haenous
     leader, King Haedar.  Slowly, her power grew to encompass the
     southlands of Tyselorrd and much of the southern mainland itself.
     Eventually, Tiktui was able to capture the city Kyrinn -- the
     largest city in the known world and the seat of great power.
        With the beseigement of Kyrinn, Tiktui now had control over
     what was known as the Gemmaster's Guild -- a group of supernatural
     magicians who were able to wield enormous natural energies that
     could coelesce into numerous forms of both healing and destruction.
     With this, Tiktui would seem unstoppable.  In fact, all but the
     Southern Isles had sworn allegance to her in fear of her wrath.     
       It is through the revealment of two ancient artifacts (the Crown
     of the Zengalli and the Sword of Vlattensintri) that gives King Rygor
     the power to overthrow the tyranness Tiktui and her hosts of undead
     soldiers.  The Crown is uncovered by an enigmatic race of forest-
     dwelling mystics, called Thilonenne, while the Sword is found and
     brought before the King by a curious young squire searching in the
     ruins of an ancient underground catacomb.
     
     The War Cant is thus:
 
 
        Epic battles pressing kings,
        War-horns blowing warnings,
        Yet the darkling hour has yet to come,
        For they have sought twice then thrice the chosen one.
        
        Ere the dwarven mistress, now empress,
        Sitting on her throne of bone,
        In the northlands of the Tyrants,
        She waits now with armies of her own.
        
        The enigma of the thilons,
        South they live in forests deep,
        They've moved northward to the King,
        And parleyed for his wonderous Keep.
        
        The One race, so they seem,
        Ancient mysteries left unsought,
        These the thilonenne have awakened,
        From the iron of ancient kings:
        They found the Crown that was wrought.
        
        First only the sound of horn,
        Now the war banners are unfurled,
        Marching south the undead wrath forsaken,
        Rygor's judgement fates the world.
        
        The squire found in forgotten chambers,
        The sword of Vlattensintri concealed,
        Before the King the squire came,
        And to him the sword now revealed.
        
        Yea the monsters would perish on fields,
        And in Kltara all would bear arms,
        The King himself thrice as strong,
        Come forth to protect his peasants' farms.
        
        Drawing quick from ancient splendors,
        Tiktui now had nothing to boast,
        Living gods of Valor ventured,
        Northward fleets would seek Her hosts.
        
        To the Elder Days once taken,
        Jharl revealed as more than a few,
        The coming told now of the new tribes,
        And the revival brought Zengalli anew.
        
        So it would be the greatest epoch,
        The ancient humans now resurrected,
        Coming forth to challenge the tyrant,
        The Leader, the Chosen, the Host of the War-Cant.
        

